#summary This wiki page describe how to install and configure Acorn System on remote server.
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =
This description assumes that remote server has installed Linux OS. Acorn can use any relational database with JDBC drivers. Here is described installation with MySQL DBMS.

= Description of installation and configuration process =
For running Acorn follow these steps:
  * Download the NetBeans IDE in version Java 6.7 from [http://netbeans.org/downloads/] website and install it on Your computer.
  * Run NetBeans IDE, select ''Team'' item in upper menu, then ''Subversion'' and ''Checkout''. Fill "Repository URL" field with url: https://a-c-o-r-n.googlecode.com/svn. Fill "User" and "Password" fields with your username and password to repository. Click "Next" and fill "Local Folder" field with path to place where source of project will be downloaded. In "Repository Folder(s)" select "Browse", then expand "Trunk" node, hold *Ctrl* key and select all projects situated under "Trunk" node. Select "OK" and "Finish". Open all projects after download.
  * Install MySQL DBMS on remote server writing in console window:
 {{{
 $ yum install mysql-server-5.3
 }}}
 or
 {{{
 $ apt-get install mysql-server-5.3
 }}}
 Run MySQL after installation:
 {{{
 $ mysqld_safe --user=mysql --log-warnings &
 }}}
 Next rum MySQL client:
 {{{
 $ mysql-u root -p
 }}}
 Then create user "acorn" with password "acorn" using client session:
 {{{
 $ CREATE USER 'acorn'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'acorn';
 $ GRANT ALL ON "." TO 'acorn'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'acorn';
 }}}
 Change value of global variables "wait_timeout" and "interactive_timeout" to 691200 sec.:
 {{{
 $ SET GLOBAL wait_timeout = 691200;
 $ SET GLOBAL interactive_timeout = 691200;
 }}}
 Close client session as root. Run client session as "acorn". Create "acorn-db" database:
 {{{
 $ CREATE DATABASE acorn-db;
 }}}
 If something is not clear, You can find help on MySQL website http://dev.mysql.com/
 * Install GlassFish application server on remote server. Recomended directory is _/usr/local_. Put proper MySQL driver in _lib_ and _domains/domain1/lib_ subdirectories of installation folder. Name of driver should be as follows:
 {{{
 mysql-connector-java-*.*.*-bin.jar ,
 }}}
 where stars mean version of driver which depands on version of GlassFish. Run command:
 {{{
 $ sudo apt-get install libmysql-java
 }}}
 in console window. It will install more libraries usefull for GlassFish server.
 * Create following directory structure on remote server:
 {{{
  /usr/local
        |_ acorn
              |_ acron-0.3
              |_ amkfba
              |_ acorn-worker
                     |_lib
 }}}
 Copy libraries used by acorn-worker and acorn-db library to _acorn-worker/lib_ directory.  Copy sources of Amkfba project to _amkfba_ directory.
 * Enter _/usr/local/acorn/amkfba_ directory.To compile Amkfba project run:
 {{{
 $ make clean
 $ make
 }}}
 * Download sources of GraphViz for Linux OS from http://www.graphviz.org and install on remote server. Add path to _bin_ directory of GraphViz to PATH variable.
 * Open "Files" window (*Ctrl+2*) in NetBeans IDE. Open and edit "local-individuals.properties" file. Write proper values for variables:
    *"local-root-name" - name of folder where projects were downloaded
    *"server-name" - name of remote server
 * Expand "AcornWSClient" node in "Projects" window in NetBeans IDE, then "Web Service References" node:
   * right mouse button on "AcornWSService", then "Edit Web Service Attributes". Fill "wsdlLocation" field in "Wsimport Options", click "OK".
   * right mouse button on "AcornWSService", then "Refresh Client". Check "Also replace WSDL file" box and write adress of WSDL file, click "OK".
 * Expand "acorn-ant" node in "Projects" window in NetBeans IDE. Click right mouse button on "build.xml" and choose "Run Target", "Other Targets", "server-create-resources".
 * Expand "acorn-ant" node, click right mouse button on "build.xml", next choose "Run Target", "Other Targets", "server-copy-acorn-config".
 * Expand "acorn-ant" node, click right mouse button on "build.xml", next choose "Run Target", "server-web-deploy-all". Your web browser should open logging page of Acorn Project.
 * Expand "acorn-ant" node, click right mouse button on "build.xml", next choose "Run Target", "server-worker-run-all".
 * Expand "acorn-ant" node, click right mouse button on "build.xml", next choose "Run Target", next "Other Targets" and "vaapp-run-all-on-sysbio-server".
 * Copy files "backup_bazy.sh", "run_acorn_worker.sh", "acorn_meintenance.sh" from acorn-ant project to Your home folder on remote server and run in console window:
 {{{
 $ crontab -e
 }}}
 This command allows You to edit cron table with commands which cron demon does periodically. Add this line to table:
 {{{
 0 5 * * 1 /home/your_username/acorn_meintenance.sh
 }}}