#summary Replies to reviewer comments.

= Replies to reviewer comments =

 # _Comment_: The user can only see the reaction name or ID. No information regarding the reaction equation is given at this point. This is a big limitation in this tool because when the names of the reactions used in the model are intelligible, for example in the case of the M. tuberculosis model, there is no chance to know what conversion carried in that reaction. A possible solution is to improve the information shown in the window showing the reaction ID or simply the option to start a simulation directly from the "Model Details" menu.<br/>_Reply_: The information shown in the page with the reaction ID has been improved.
 # _Comment_: An error message appears right after clicking in the button "Start the simulation" even though the simulation is stored in the task list.<br/>_Reply_: We are grateful for noticing this. This error appeared after some time the system was deployed and was caused by misconfiguration of the !GlassFish Java EE server. We have constructed a set of automated tests with the Selenium web application testing system, which can be easily re-executed every few days, to prevent of such errors in the future.
 # _Comment_: Visualization of the task: Different error messages from the Java server are often retrieved while trying to access the results of a given task.<br/>_Reply_: --,--
 # _Comment_: Visualization of the task: When logged in, it is not possible to see the shared tasks.<br/>_Reply_: --,,--
 # _Comment_: Visualization of the task: Is is not possible to generate the drawing of FVA result even though in the page 9 beginning of subsection "Visualisation of numerical results on metabolic pathway diagrams" it is written: " Numerical results of FBA and FVA calculations can be visualised on pathway diagrams (Figure 6)."<br/>_Reply_: The confusing message has been removed. It is now possible to generate drawings for FVA.
 # _Comment_: Simulations: It is not possible to give priorities to certain tasks. Thus, a task for FVA can block other tasks that in principle should run faster, such a simple FBA. Consequently, if I was a user, I would prefer to do the simulation locally in my machine. This option may be available on the stand alone command line tool, not tested here. But this requires also more expertise in script languages that maybe the target user may not have.<br/>_Reply_: FVA and Rscan tasks, which take significantly longer to complete, are now given lower priorities. In particular, if an FVA or Rscan task is being processed and a FBA or KGENE task is submitted, the former is paused for the smaller task to finish immediately. Moreover, we have also added the possibility to download the model and task description to run the simulation locally and then upload the results.
 # _Comment_: It is not possible to export the results of the simulations and the integrations with the diagrams. This limits the integration of this tool with other tools in systems biology. As I mentioned in the previous point, it is also not possible to import other results, computed locally.<br/>_Reply_: We are working on adding the possibility to download the model and task description to run the simulation locally and then upload the results. For now this feature is available for FBA for test purposes. We plan to improve interoperability of Acorn further in future releases.
 # _Comment_: The Visual Acorn Application that is used for generate the visualizations is very robust and easy to use. However, while defining the name of a place, it is not possible to do a quick search in the extensive metabolite list, whenever the all the names of the metabolite start with an M. The only solution possible is to scroll down the this huge list. The same problem is found for reactions. A quick search box would be useful.<br/>Reply: The GUI component has been extended with the requested quick search functionality.
 # _Comment_: Continuing with this visualization tool, several copies of the same transition and place can be found in the visualization. While this is in general a good option, the user does not have the change to merge nodes that correspond to the same metabolite or reaction ID, even though it is possible to delete the arrows linking a transition to a place. This option could be used to reduce the complexity of the visualization.<br/>_Reply_: Many occurrences of the same node can be now highlighted together by clicking them while holding down the "Ctrl" key. Doing so activates a newly added "Merge" button, which initiates the requested functionality.
 # _Comment_: Also in the visualization tool, the automatic inclusion of highly connected nodes, such as pyrivate, can be problematic because several reactions are inserted in the visualization. An option for these nodes could restrict or allow to filter better which reactions to insert.<br/>_Reply_: We intend to include this feature in the future release of Acorn.